# REST API Testing - RestfulBookerAPI
Restful-booker is a Create Read Update Delete Web API
## Project Name: Restful Booker Service

Visit https://restful-booker.herokuapp.com/apidoc
# Project Description
This project involves testing the Restful Booker API, which is a RESTful web service that allows you to manage bookings. The API supports typical CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations. The testing focuses on validating the functionality of the API endpoints and handling various input scenarios.

# Test Cases
A set of Postman test cases have been created to cover different scenarios for the Restful Booker API. These include positive and negative test cases to ensure robustness and accuracy in booking management.

#Running Tests with Newman
Newman is a command-line collection runner for Postman. It allows you to run and test a Postman collection directly from the command line.

# Prerequisites
* Node.js installed on your system.
* Newman installed globally via npm.

# Technologies
Postman: Used for designing and executing API requests.
Collection Runner: Postman's built-in tool for running collections sequentially.
Newman: Command-line tool for running Postman collections from the terminal.
npm: Package manager for managing Node.js dependencies.
htmlextra: HTML reporting library for generating detailed test reports.

## Installation

* Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/prebuilt-installer).
* Install Newman globally using npm:

`npm install -g newman-reporter-htmlextra`

# Test Execution & HTML Reporting which is generated by newman

- Run the following command to execute the tests and generate an HTML report:
'newman run Restful-Booker.postman_collection.json -r cli,htmlextra'

- The HTML report will be generated in the current directory with a name like newman-run-report.html
  


  
